Thank you, Jim.
All right, we have everybody with us.
Um, I'm going to call to order the Town
of Andover Board of Selectmen regular
meeting for Monday, December 8th, 2025
at 7 o'clock. Um, our first
item on the agenda is the Pledge of
Allegiance. I pledge allegiance to the
flag of the United States of America and
to the republic for which it stands, one
nation under God, indivisible, with
liberty and justice for all.
>> Okay. Item two is public speak. Um,
Katherine Hutchinson.
>> Yes. For those of you who may not know
me, I live on Bunker Hill Road. I'm the
very closest house to Route 6. It's
about 3/10en of a mile normally to get
to Route 6 from my house.
The last 8 months and 8 days has been
extremely trying, particularly since my
barn is on the other side of the road,
which means at least two trips a day,
taking five miles instead of half a
mile, five miles each way instead of
half a mile. I really want to thank the
board of selectmen
for their diligence in pursuing
particularly when there were some
glitches in the construction from
remaining steadfast and holding um the
contractor to the contract.
Um the town administrators were also
very uh handson and I appreciate that.
the town crew participated and probably
other people in the town that I don't
know about. And I just wanted to say
this afternoon when I drove across the
bridge when the inspector said, "Okay,
come on." Uh, and I drove across it
couple minutes after 2:00, it was the
greatest feeling in the world. And I
wanted to thank everybody that
participated and let you know how much I
appreciate it.
All right.
>> Thank you very much, Liz Latch.
Sorry, trying to trying to unmute. Um,
I'm happy for you all and thank you.
Thank you as well for getting that
bridge opened. Um, congratulations,
Kathy. I'm I'm glad you have your your
road back.
>> Thank you.
>> Okay, Haley Proto.
>> Nothing at this time. Thank you,
>> Joanne Heert.
>> Hello. Um, I'm mainly here to listen
because I don't know exactly what's
going to be discussed on the items, but
um, I only wanted to say a couple things
since you are going to be discussing,
you know, some town positions and
salaries and I may not have a chance to
say it after I learn, listen, and learn.
um you know with I guess I have strong
feelings after serving on the board of
finance for those that don't know me
either for the past four years and had
done a lot of research on some of the
positions. So when I speak like this
it's not without a lot of thought or
preparation or research. So the only
thing I wanted to bring up because I
really don't know what you're going to
propose. I don't think it was in the
packet and it probably shouldn't be
because it's personnel matters and and
salaries of that nature. But um you know
in the research that I had done
especially involving the assistant to
the community and senior center director
position I know you know we started off
in that position with one full-time
employee. Um you know things were done.
She was out of her job for a little
while and we had the replacement person
come in. So, um, I just want to remind,
you know, I'll listen to all the
discussions. I understand there needs to
be a lot of coverage in there and
everything. So, I'm anxious to see what
everything is going to be proposed. I
just want to bring up that in my
research in, you know, checking into
things like this. I did talk to the
Marboro Senior Center director, who
there is one person there for a town
almost double our size. She was a lovely
lady. spent a lot of time on the phone
with me. Um, she's actually also handles
the the duties of the municipal agent
and um, you know, social services person
because as we all know, a lot of that
stuff can be posted on websites and
things of that nature. So, I've always
been advocating as the board of
selectmen people know, board of finance
people know, the many emails I've
written through the year, you know,
through my years of trying to get those
duties, you know, now that we have the
senior center director and community
center put back there. Hopefully, that's
part of the discussion. Um, and like I
said, I don't want to say too much
because I really don't know what's going
to be discussed, but I'm still
advocating for that. So, thank you.
Marcy Miner.
>> I am all set. Thank you.
>> Uh Kimberly Person,
>> I'm all set. Thank you.
>> Um Tess Cross,
>> I am all set, sir. Thank you.
>> All right. Um Leanne Hutchinson.
>> Hi. Yes. I want to tell everyone how
thrilled we are that the bridge was open
as of today. It really makes a a huge
difference in our daily lives and I've
used the phrase peace of mind before
about having access to, you know, easier
for emergency services and just, you
know, in addition to routine routine
travel and I'm sure it's going to be
easier for the town uh as far as road
maintenance and plowing in the winter.
So, um, thank you for your efforts and
it's a big relief to have it open.
>> Okay. Uh, Diane Greer,
>> I'm all set. Thank you very much.
>> Okay. Um, I have a Zoom login. I'm not
sure who that is. If you identify
yourself,
>> Jeff, I don't know if that's me. It's
Elaine Bookart.
>> It is Elaine. How are you?
>> Thank you. Yeah, just it has a tendency
to delete my name every time. Um I'm I'm
basically listening in for um when we
come to the Vernon area cable advisory
committee and the state video advisory
committee that you I'm looking for an
official appointment to that I've
actually been doing since 2015, but I
need an official appointment letter. So
I'll hang on for that point. Thanks.
>> All right. And then I'm assuming that
2345 is attorney O'Brien.
>> Okay. And I got no response. I'm going
to assume that's attorney O'Brien. Did I
miss anyone?
>> Okay.
>> Yes, that is me. I just I just uh
unmuted myself.
>> Okay,
>> that's me. Dennis O'Brien. Thank you.
>> Thank you.
All right. Um, did I miss anyone in
public speak? Anybody else like to say
anything before we get started?
Okay. Uh, item three, additions and
changes to the agenda. Did any of the
members have uh anything that they'd
like to add or delete? Carol,
>> I do. First, I have a question though.
Is Jim available just for a quick
question? A couple of questions
actually.
>> Sure. Do you want is it related to items
to enter on the agenda or questions you
want to ask him?
>> Well, it's it's for items I'd like to
add.
>> Okay.
>> So, first off, Jim, for the 5310 grant
where we have to schedule a special
meeting for the town match portion,
>> uh how pressed are we for time on that?
Should we add that to the agenda tonight
for that to discuss setting that date?
>> I don't think we're approved.
We have to have a special town meeting
for the 5310 grant for the new bus
because we have a 20% town match.
>> So, I'm just asking for the deadline on
that.
Do we have to set that? Should we be
setting the meeting tonight is what I'm
asking.
>> Uh, I don't think I don't think we're up
against a deadline. I have um some
paperwork I have to file with Greater
New Haven Transit that they're asking
for on the bus and there's a question or
two I don't have the answer to that I'm
looking for uh basically where the the
bus is coming from um which of two
vendors. Um so I I don't think it's
critical that it goes on tonight.
>> Okay. So we don't have to
>> you know you know better your process
and time frame for getting it on and
then getting a town meeting to follow
up. But short answer is no.
>> Okay. I just thought if we had to have
it done in February, we'd need to set
something now. Second one was um we at
last meeting we had voted to extend
Haley's contract. Did you do anything
with signing that or extending that?
I have. No, I haven't. I I've seen
Haley's contract. I've seen that.
>> Okay.
>> Yeah.
>> All right. So, what I would like to do
>> That's that's another discussion, too. I
think
>> it is.
>> Yeah.
>> So, so what I would like to add to the
agenda first, um, also last month, the
chairman of the board of ed asked us to
discuss and act on the corrective action
plan. So, I'd like to for the Andover
Elementary School in the town um based
on recommendations from our auditor. So,
I'd like to add that to the agenda,
please.
And I would also like to add that we
revisit
um and I don't know what the proper
wording for this would be, but in light
of the fact that the contract was not
signed and extended,
Jeff, your motion was to extend her
current contract that expired on
November 14th until the end of the year.
she can no longer be interim director
because we have a director and I think
that we need to be responsible and send
over a salary amount to the board of
finance. I know you went and asked for
approval to be over by I believe it was
$20,000 on that budget line, but I think
we need to revisit the contract whether
it's going to be an actual contract or a
simple letter of employment.
And
so those were the two that I'm asking to
add. Also the third was Tess had emailed
us to ask ask for an executive session.
I don't know if she's still
asking for that. She had wanted to
discuss.
I forget what it was she wanted to
discuss, but we did all receive an email
and I don't see executive session um
for what she requested.
Tess, do you still want to u get with us
after this meeting?
>> Yes, I do.
>> Okay.
All right. So,
>> so if we can do that, please. I know she
sent it over uh Thursday
at around 1:00, which was a couple hours
before we got our agenda and our packet.
So,
so I would just like to add however we
need to word it about revisiting
the
assistant to
the community and senior center director
and corrective action plan and the
executive session for Tess's request.
Please.
>> Um,
even right.
Okay. So,
so Carol, how about we add uh
um
we'll call this
so
And
how about we call them both 8N
and 80. So um 8N uh we'll have a
discussion regarding the town of Andover
corrective action plan for the fiscal
year ended June 20 June 30th
um 2025.
Jeff, before you make a motion on that,
>> can I just say if I don't know how you
handle executive sessions in the past,
I'll have to knock everyone off and stop
the recording. So, I don't know if you
want to stop that to the end.
>> Yeah, we're going to put it after public
speak. So, okay.
>> Um, but let's just get them on the
agenda. So, 8, uh, the town of Andover
corrective action plan June 30th, 2024.
I heard I believe someone say that.
All right. And then uh we'll go 80. Um
discussion regarding the assistant
community
center.
Uh
>> so we have her on there as 8J.
However, I was trying to ask you how we
would go about
undoing your motion from our meeting
last month where you moved to extend
till the end of the year with
>> the current rate.
>> I don't know.
>> But nothing was signed.
>> So let's then let's discuss it there. So
we'll discuss
>> we don't need 80 then is what you're
saying to undo.
>> Okay.
>> And then we'll put 14A as an executive
session employee issue.
>> Okay. Thank you.
>> All right. Anybody else?
Okay.
Um we'll move on to item. Um sorry
that's not what we need to do. Um, I
make a motion that we add uh 8N
uh town of Andover Corrective action
plan discussion regarding the town of
Andover Correction Action Plan for
fiscal year 2024 June 30th, 2024 ending
and uh
item 14A
uh executive session uh regarding
employee issue. Um
we'll add that as 14A. Anybody want to
make a second?
>> I'll second.
>> Carol Lee is seconding.
Uh, anybody with further discussion?
Okay. Um,
I'll go roll call. Any
>> I
>> Lee
>> I.
>> Jeff Murray.
>> Hi.
>> Scott Person.
>> I Jeff Magcguire. I 5 nothing. Okay. Um
item four, boards and commission
presentation. Do we have any boards and
commission presentation? I don't believe
I saw anything in the packet.
No. Okay. Uh item five, appointments. I
don't believe there are any appointments
for this meeting. Item six, resignation.
Uh there was a resignation letter in
from Eric Becker from the board of
education on page four of our packet.
Any further discussion on that? Are we
all set?
Um, and we'll move on to item seven,
Todd administrators report. Jim,
>> good. Thanks, Jeff.
>> Uh, so you have the report there. Uh, on
the the item on there, the job postings
talk about seeing good responses. Just
to give a little followup on that, um,
the bulk of them and the most popular
position being advertised is clearly the
assistant assessor. We have about 45
applications there. About 17 for town
administrator and about eight for
treasurer. Uh John Chaponus is kind of
weeding through the um the assistant
assessors is you probably know how
Indeed works. You get some people just
splashing resumes on there with with or
without intent to to actually being
serious for it. So he's kind of
compiling them into serious and and not
serious. And Jeff you had mentioned
about maybe John myself and maybe Robera
being a committee to look at that. One
of my my suggestion is that's that's you
know John has mentioned in emails about
holding up the uh the grand list
certification and we should move on that
one first and possibly the treasurer the
town administrator. we still have a
committee to select and so um of the
three not that it's not important but it
it can weight over the other two. So um
so those are moving along well
on um I I one of the things Eric didn't
get a really a good chance to sit with
me on and and go over our gun permits.
I'm familiar with the process and the
packet I have to give to somebody who
comes in and give them the um you know
the road to to starting the process. As
you know, we have a new um uh new
resident trooper there. there seems to
be a gap and he's checking with Trooper
Cook who's out on leave um to see
because there may be like a login or
something with him on that on that uh
site that checks people because he's not
seeing the people pop up on his end. So,
I'm going to sit with him this week. He
wasn't around today uh to make sure we
have this uh we have this nailed down
because I've got some permits here. I've
got some checks. he's not seeing those
people is coming back uh with background
checks and fingerprints. So, we're gonna
work on that uh this week.
As mentioned, u Bunker Hill, you can
forget what I wrote because it's it's
now open. Uh there is some items um on a
punch list or to-do items that have to
still be done. um mainly the uh paved
swell on either side on the um the Route
Six side entering the bridge. Uh they
were worried they would have had to wait
till spring on that. The contractor now
tells me they may be able to get some
asphalt. They thought most most if not
all the asfield plants asphalt plants
were closed, but they may be able to get
some hot asphalt and take care of those
two uh swelles. striping. We'll
certainly have to wait for the spring,
but they're going to put some skids
down, some tape down to to, you know,
bifurcate the uh the road for uh for
line striping, temporary line striping.
Seating, of course, we'll have to um
wait until uh the spring and um they'll
be removing some stakes and signs that
are there. So, that's that's the update
on that. Um, I was curious for the town
council, were you interested in doing
some type of event around this, a ribbon
cutting? It's federal money. Do we want
to get, you know, federal elected
officials, state elected officials here
and do something on that? So, I I didn't
know how that board of selectment felt
about that.
>> Anybody? you can think about it first or
>> No, we probably should to be really
honest and announce it to the community
uh in the River East. So, let's uh
let's communicate by email or by text on
dates that might work for everybody and
we'll sit there and see what we can do.
>> We have to do it before it really snows.
So,
>> yeah, maybe doing it in March, right?
just
um on the veterans um fields grant um
I've been in communication with kind of
this intimate group that's familiar with
the with the grant. Um couple decisions
I think have to be made here. Um
on the and and just for if everyone's up
to speed, I'm not sure. So if I'm
repeating myself, I apologize. There's
two grants here. There's a steep grant
for $500,000
that's going to cover most of the um the
work there. The second grant to kind of
fill it out, and this is how DEECD
wanted it, is $250,000
legislative
um appropriation.
So, we're targeting that 250 for the um
for the uh playground and accessories
around it. We're working with DEC. You
have a a resolution you'll need to pass
tonight. Actually, two of them related
to this. And um we have to get them a
budget and a budget narrative and the
resolution. They will then come back to
us with a um
with a letter of intent and a financial
assistance agreement. Um and then we can
kind of move forward from there. just
you know just my experience with this
and I had mentioned this to Jeff that
you know in in the in the scheme of a of
a grant and the grant process and grant
administration this grant if you
separate it from the steep grant if
there's 10 stages to it this grant is
about stage two or three so we are
moving through going to try and move
through it as as quickly as possible
uh both the contractor Millennium and I
heard from Gordian today who is the the
COG um contractor that kind of oversees
this have
have requested that we give them an
additional uh purchase order. As you may
be aware, in order to lock in the cost
of the playground, we had to get them a
purchase order quickly and we did that.
Jeff signed off on that probably over a
week ago. They're now saying that the
other uh costs associated with this
project come the new year are subject to
increase as well. And um so they're
going to need an additional purchase
order for that. I just want to prepare
you all for that. I mean, you know, the
money's in there for this project. The
town has its contribution uh at least
towards the steep grant that the the
250. There's no need for a town
contribution.
So, um, just be prepared for for that.
And the, you know, the number seems
high, but again, it's simply a purchase
order of money that will be given to us
by the by the state.
>> Can I just ask a quick question? I know
you said grant money, but we're getting
500,000 from STEAP. We're getting
250,000 from the legislative. That's
750,000.
The purchase order that Jeff signed is
not only for the playground package.
It's for the storage shed, the lighting
poles, and the pickle ball post for a
total of $24,848.95.
So, we're up to $99,000
950.
Right. And we have 750.
>> That's what I think is right.
Well, there's about I think it's about a
$100,000
contribution from the town on that steep
grant,
>> right? I think it was $150 that was
voted on February of 24, right?
>> Okay.
>> And then don't forget the $10,000 from
>> 10,000 from the Hartford.
>> So, you want to add all those up?
>> So, and
>> I'll add I'm not going to interrupt.
Keep going, Jim. I'm sorry.
So in in your mind, just separated, the
purpose of the purchase orders, whatever
those dollar amounts are, and they're
kind of all over the place, are for
locking in prices so we don't get hit
and end up paying more than we have to.
What DEC wants in in on these two grants
for reporting is a different matter. So
don't conflate the numbers together. The
purchase orders are merely to lock in to
lock in prices and not get uh and not
get hit. Um any other questions on on
the uh on the veterans for
>> all the procedures, all the paperwork
that they need to fill out. Are we are
you sure that you're going to fill them
out, Jim?
>> Well, a after tonight, Jeff will be
signing off on them, but I I did send
around I think Scott, you may have been
on it because you're you're involved in
this. I sent a sample budget around. Did
you see what I sent?
>> Isn't it in the back?
>> No. No. I was working on the budget.
>> I was working on the budget today for uh
for DCD as one of the submissions. It's
not ready to be looked at. We have to
>> What I'm What I'm getting at, Jim, it's
all the follow-up paperwork that's going
to be needed to be kept current. Are you
going to be in that time p timetable to
do all those that paperwork? Yes. I
mean, at at some point, um, you're going
to put in remember the the
reimbursements, Scott, come quarterly.
So, they'll be maybe at least the final
quarter. Somebody else will have to
we'll have to do that. But remember,
we're two quarters in I wouldn't say in
a rears, but we're two quarters behind.
And as soon as we get from what they
told me, the financial assistance
agreement rolling, we can put in for
those two. and the third one will be,
you know, knocking at our door. So,
>> okay,
>> it should be around for the third.
>> So, just just so we're clear, let's
>> the $250,000, which is a legislative
grant. It's being administered by this
group, Jim, that you're dealing with,
Susan. Um,
that is already approved by the state of
Connecticut and needs to be spent during
this fiscal year.
Right.
>> Right. Right. But it's already approved.
So when you say we're at level two,
we're at level two in moving this
process forward, which has to move
fairly quickly.
>> Yes.
>> Okay.
>> The dominoes will fall. We're tied up in
this early stage paperwork.
>> Okay. And then
Scott's question, Scott, the treasur's
office is going to handle a significant
amount of the paperwork related to the
spending of the funds and what gets
submitted to the various organizations
to get reimbursement from the grants.
So
let me just on the steep grant. Yes. On
the legislative
once our paperwork is set, we should be
able to put in immediately with a monthl
from DCD they claim for half the money
without showing them we did anything.
>> Okay. So we will have the money
potentially before it's spent on the
pieces of equipment.
>> Yes.
>> Okay. All right. Thank you. kind of what
I'm saying, Jim, is there's a lot of
pieces to this puzzle. And is there any
way to put together some sort of order
to it so that I, for one, can see the
order as though we can keep track of it?
You're you're on top of it. Christine's
on top of it, but and I asked her the
same question. Um, I would like to be
able to know what is coming up, what
needs to be worked on
and and get this progressing correctly.
Okay. Um,
again, so we have two points. I I've
also connected with the DEC
person who's administering
the state grant. It's not Sheila Hmel
anymore. to a gentleman named David
Treadwell. So
on the two-prong approach, yes, you can
know, but we we can start, you know,
subject to and again, I'm catching up on
this because I'm new to it. The town
allocated money on the steep grant. It's
it's sitting in an account somewhere
because we can I mean, it's a winter
now. I don't know how much you're going
to get done on the pickle ball courts,
but you're not under a time pressure
there. Um, I think the key is going to
be getting the playground done in the
first, you know, by and by May 31st to
be honest with you, not June 30th. And
then you could, you have four years to
deal with the pickle ball courts. Not
that it'll take that long, but Steep is
very generous in its time frame, whereas
the
>> legis don't say four years. That'll set
Scott off even more.
>> No, no. I'm I'm It doesn't have to be
that long. The plan the plan is to get
as much of this done in the next in the
spring as possible to close something
out. So what what Scott is asking for is
some kind of timelines like if we hit
these timelines we're okay. I'm more
concerned about the money. You're you're
basically telling us that the $250,000
once the budget and once you go through
this process with DEC that we're going
to get funded for that $250,000
in this fiscal year and we're going to
spend it in this fiscal year related to
the playground.
>> That's good. The rest of it, Scott, we
have approval for all of the rest of the
steep funding and the town match. So, if
we can get Millennium to sit there and
do the work starting in March or April,
we can have this project hopefully done
by June 30th.
>> Yes.
>> At work.
>> Yeah.
>> Okay. Another thing, Jim, about uh I
noticed that from Millennium the uh
municipal hub, the Andover Municipal
Parking Hub, they they they
uh titled it as something to do with uh
Andover Senior Transportation or
something. I know that these things need
to have the same titles
on every piece of paper. So Millennial
has to change that to I think what the
state calls it the Andover Municipal
Parking Hub.
>> So those that has when you talk to them
again
>> probably to change that. Yeah. So that
it's all titled the same.
>> I think I used the term too in my report
because that's how I was kind of told it
was
it was characterized. But yeah, the
state has its own name for it.
Well, a lot. Are we good on the uh the
fields?
>> Anybody else have any questions?
>> Just what fund is the 150,000 town match
coming from, please?
>> The general fund.
>> The general fund. It's not one of our
capital accounts like multi-use
building, contingency, building
maintenance.
>> I don't think it was budgeted like that.
I think it was a town meeting. We asked
for approval to spend the money. Um,
I'll have to look at the the resolution,
Carol, on the vote, but
I don't think we sat there and pulled it
from anything.
>> I don't think they determined what fund
the night of the meeting. It was just to
approve the $500,000 Steve grant and the
$150 town match.
>> So, we're we don't know where that money
is coming from, Jeff. what fund just so
we can keep the board of finance
advised as to what we're taking and
where we're taking it from.
>> It would come out and that's fine and
we'll sit there and get with the
treasurer, but in my head it would come
out of the general fund.
>> Okay.
>> Thank you.
>> Okay. And Scott mentioned the uh the
municipal hub grant and I I again I'm
assume you're kind of aware of this as
Eric you know briefed me on it. Um
and if you look down in the in the
packet I'm going to go to the page uh on
this.
So you see you you had requested um and
they didn't scan did they scan
completely I guess they did the these
are the elevation drawings I think when
I was sitting with Eric we had asked for
renderings Millennium you know informed
us that renderings are quite expensive
and more time consuming threedimensional
renderings so they've given us the
elevations so on page 11 you can see
that second floor there on the um on the
municipal hub and the side view and so
on. So that's what they requested so you
see what you're getting. Now along those
lines,
uh and I just wanted to make sure you're
aware of it. The original um DEC budget
for this comes in at 300
and about $390,000
and Millennium has advised me for this
second floor there's an adjustment in
the cost
bringing that cost now to
>> it's another 83,000 880 right for
something. So I I don't know if you had
handled that in the past, not handled
it. I wasn't briefed on that. So I I
wanted
>> This is just This is justformational
purposes. Jeff Murray, is that a
reasonable amount of money for I mean
because they were supposed to have
basically a second floor anyway, but not
garages, which they didn't do in the
drawing, but
for an extra $75,000
to pick up three or four feet of roof
height.
>> They they were changing the
the whole framing on the
>> It all depends. Like if they were just
doing trusses before and now they're
going to have to stick frame it. It's
probably Yes.
If we're going with, you know, with uh
joist and rafters, then
instead of just trusses.
>> Okay. Well, this is something that we're
going to have to sit there and deal
with. Uh, you know, I mean, I I honestly
believe it's I've always thought it was
a good idea to take that page 12 and not
make a door of it, but actually garage
doors and actually have storage for um
uh the rec commission, storage for the
seniors, storage because right now
everybody's putting anything that they
have either in the community center or
in the uh public works department
building. So,
but I just don't know. I mean, that's
obviously another 75 or $80,000 that
we'd have to sit there and deal with.
Um,
>> this board approved that, Jeff. And we
we wanted it for the storage and to put
the doors on coming in from the the
other side.
>> I I agree. and I want to vote for it,
but I also know it's it's an extra 70 or
$80,000 that we'd have to take out of
either one of the building funds or we'd
have to sit there and go to public
meeting and actually get the town to
approve it.
>> Yeah, but Jeeoff, it was actually
in the beginning it was just it was an
unfinished space, right? It was just
going to be an attic.
>> Yeah, it was going to be an attic. There
was going to be a little bit of um Eric
was going to have a door on the right
side of the or the left side of the
building to enter into that attic area.
And
>> yeah, I'd just be curious to see what
the justification is because maybe
they're going to um you know, instead of
putting trusses, like I said before,
they're going to actually frame the
floor for a load and then you know, put
rafters up and that
that way because if we're making it a
space, they might have to be they may be
doing the loads differently.
I think Jeff I think they're putting
just different trusses in to have the
space up there.
>> Yeah. I mean it's I mean what they're
laying out is a completely open space.
What I would sit there and do is just
maybe four garage doors or three garage
doors and allow whoever the entity that
we're giving access to. So the rec
commission has one garage door and has
one set of space and the seniors have
another set of space and you know we we
sit there and have one for the town
because we always have stuff that um
popcorn makers or different things that
need to be moved in different places. Uh
you know um
so I think it's a great idea. I just I'm
going to tell you it's it's a $80,000
and we're going to have to get it
approved and we're going to have to
understand this is what we're asking for
and why. I mean I I know it's better
than running stuff down at public works
all the time.
>> I could do if you look at page 13 it's
it's not really
I mean it's not really
broken down. economy is broken down
generally, but the items that Jeff had
mentioned,
Jeff Murray had mentioned really aren't
in there. Um,
but there's your
>> What's the difference? Just so we
understand, just so so when I sit there
and I look at the um
page 14, I have $389,000,
>> right?
>> $275,000
is the is program one. What's the 114?
That's the town of Andover's
contribution.
>> Yes.
>> Well, we're going to have to go back and
look at the whole motion related to this
in the town meeting because I know we
had um
>> 150.
>> Yeah. But then then that's on top of
that. You need another $200,000 to do
this the way that it's laid out.
So we have to understand the where the
money the sources of in of money are
from. So
um
>> well
it's as steep as a 275 for this product
>> and you're about 115.
I don't know. I
>> I mean I don't know where they're
putting that from and and did we approve
that because normally we would have
approved 20 or 25%. So if we said 275
>> and normally around 20
>> 20% it would have been a $55,000 match.
So now we're we're way out of joint to
put that second floor on there. And
>> this was never funded after we talked
about changing the trusses on the top.
Nothing ever happened. No, I know the
funding I know the funding is not I know
the I know the additional costs,
but we never really even had a we had an
initial plan from Eric, but I don't
necessarily know that Eric ever got us
a call.
>> He did. He did. He called Millennia.
They came out, you know, right before he
left and had a meeting and they put
together he told us they put together
those plans.
>> Okay. Um, let's put this off to our next
meeting because we're gonna have to do
Jim, we're gonna have to do some
research on funding. We're gonna have to
look at the resolution that was passed
at town meeting and make sure that we're
where we're lined up from the monetary
side of this.
Anybody Anybody have any other questions
related to this?
>> Okay.
>> Okay. Um, Longill Road. So, I I
mentioned that I have to get my head
around it. So, I did speak to uh Tom
Weldon from VHB who's the um that's the
states consultant on this. Um and he
gave me a little more uh
a little shed a little more light on it.
So, I I had emailed them. I guess it had
to be done officially from the town in
writing. uh SLR who did the um was the
consulting firm for construction
inspection on Bunker Hill was also the
successful firm for uh for Long Hill
Road. So they now have to get a fee
proposal to the um
to the state.
We put in
in the Harford Current in the newspaper
the legal notice um for for bids
um back on November 25th. The return
date on that and the bid opening is
going to be now on January 8th. It it
originally was I think December 23rd and
uh VHB has asked us to extend that. we
don't have to repost or anything. They
just asked for the extension and u I was
fine with that. He he thought around the
holidays the c the u the bidding firms
might be in a bit of a crush. So he
asked for the extension after the new
year. Uh after that it'll be another two
and a half weeks he says for him to
review. Then those bids will be analyzed
by another
um designer of record hired by DOT which
is Michael Baker and he will line them
up for us to see which is the lowest
responsible bidder for the award. Uh and
that has to be done all has to be done
ahead of the March 4th deadline. So this
project I know you were probably told by
Eric it's going to happen in the spring.
It's certainly going to happen in the
spring. Um once that contractor is
chosen, letters have to go back between
us and the state confirming the award.
Then there's a notice to proceed and
then the preconstruction meeting will
probably happen sometime in April or
early May. So,
just so you know, just because Bunker
Hill is done and we're moving on um to
Long Hill, we're not moving on till um
you know, the mid-spring on this just
because of the process.
Any questions I could fill in on that? I
kind of gave you a lot of
>> No, no. Good.
Okay. on um I think the I think I have
the contract in the report. Eric had
said, you know, keep an eye on fuel for
heating oil and diesel. When it dips
below 260, it's a good time um to do it.
And it was hovering above $260
plus cents. Uh there was a um
I think that whatever the date of the
contract is, it went to 257 and 255
respectively. And so I did sign with
Dime Oil for heating and diesel fuel.
That contract is done.
That's for next fiscal year.
>> Did you say that was for next fiscal
year?
>> I'm sorry. It looks like it's
>> Yeah, calendar year. Sorry. Okay,
>> I'm looking at the next item for school
year. Um, the departments received their
budgets for the upcoming budget season.
They have till January 8th to return
them. Um, some may do it quicker or not,
but they are out there. The departments
have received all of them.
>> No question there, Jeeoff. Okay.
>> No, you're all good.
>> Yep. Uh I had we were having some
trouble with Mnt Bank especially with
regard to AC payments which are large
and important and uh apparently they
still had um Eric as the global
administrator and I could not get on
there to send those a payments and I
think it came up last month too and Eric
was still here and he ultimately had to
do it. So I think we're all set now.
They said we're all set. We'll find out
obviously next month when the time
comes, but I think I lost probably much
of the morning on Monday dealing with
three different offices at at Mnt, but I
think they're uh I think we're good. Um,
I know I know as as much about cannon
axles as I know about cannon, but I
spoke to Scott Yman and he came in and
said there was going to be remember
there was going to be a need to cut that
axle at public works uh for the cannon.
There's no need to do that. The axle can
be installed originally as anticipated.
Whether that's the historic society's
call on when to do it. I don't know if
we want to do that in the winter or you
want to do something in the spring. I
assume they will they will kind of make
that call.
Um,
>> isn't it dependent upon when they get
the t the uh the wheels?
>> Oh, that's a good question. I thought I
thought they had wheels. They wait for
>> that working on the wheels down there.
They had the wheels down there.
>> The wheels are finished, Scott.
>> They look like finished wheels.
Yeah.
um
uh public works and plowing just to keep
you Eric and I have are working closely.
He um
he's always texting me if there if they
have to go out there. you know, we had
the scare last Tuesday with whether it
was going to be rain or icy rain or
snow, whether he's uh got the guys out
and ready or he is um you know, salting
um where he has to do it. So, that that
relationship is good. And, you know, as
we get to the winter, I think that
that's important. He's very accessible
and he keeps me in the loop on that. Um
I probably should have mentioned this
back on the veteran on Long Hill. Um
the public works did some tree cutting
near the long hill project. That's going
to be essential when it comes to uh
utility relocation. My understanding was
Bunker Hill got held up somewhere in the
area of six weeks because Eversource was
a little slow or maybe it was Frontier
actually um in doing that
>> Frontier
>> in doing those re utility relocations.
So, we've done our part. Again, whether
we're delayed on it or not, we'll we'll
have to see. Um, I met up with John uh
uh Guskowski over at the CCM conference.
I have I know John. I haven't met with
him on his role here, and I'd like to do
that. So, I'm setting up a meeting um
for next week with him.
Some items that aren't in the report
that I think I'll just add now. uh the
Percy Cook Trail. Kevin Grindle from
Barton and Logaduce will be at the BOE
meeting on Wednesday night. You folks
saw those elevations and those drawings
last month. He's going to present them
to board of education because they have
some questions. I won't even say
concerns yet, just questions because of
the um proximity to their their fields
on that uh on that trail. So, Wednesday
night, he'll be able to answer any of
their questions and show them exactly
what they're getting. Um,
>> Jim, when when you talk to him again,
can you ask him to field locate the
>> location of those where where it's going
to come closest to the school so they
don't worry about it?
>> Yes.
>> Just quickly, you know, they don't have
to go out with survey equipment, but,
you know, somehow
staking. Maybe
>> anecdotally, I think I remember Eric
saying something like, "Well, I won't I
won't I won't I don't mash up his word."
So, yes, I'll I'll do that, Scott.
Um,
and we did purchase some um this is with
with Jeff taking a look at this. Our um
IT contractor
came back with an offer on some
refurbished computers. Apparently the
computers in the the clerk's office were
um giving them some trouble. we're a bit
behind um the time and so u they gave us
an estimate or gave us a price of a $100
each for refurbished computers and u
they're going through town hall and
giving us a number I think maybe as many
as eight they're going to they're going
to ultimately uh redo but for that cost
it seemed to be a no no brainer
and that's all I have on the report
>> okay anybody have any questions for Jim
on any of the specific items?
>> I don't have questions, but Jim, I just
wanted to let you know that as far as
the pistol permits, you do have to have
a login and you have to take annual
training on that and then you take a
test at the end of the training and you
have to pass all that in order to get
your login information. So,
>> is that for me or the trooper? So, if
you want, anybody who is handling is
supposed to do this training. Um, if you
go into the town clerk's email, have
Roberta go in there and pull out the
information. I I forget the lady's name.
I'll probably remember it right after we
sign off the meeting, but uh she'll
email you the information. You have to
take the test. So, anyone that's
handling that, Jeff Maguire had to take
it because he signs off as our chief of
police on the temporary permits. And
were you also informed too that the
temporaries are $70 when the applicants
come to pick up their temp?
>> Uh, this
>> I have a number of checks in the next.
So I Jim. So yes, I am aware.
>> Okay. Because they have to go on and do
everything that pay for the fingerprints
themselves online.
>> Okay. Eric,
Carol, because the state troopers are uh
qualified and have already passed all
that testing. Eric was working to get
the troopers to sit there and do that
because they're familiar with all of
those um background searches. And before
our trooper ripped up his knee, he was
doing those. So now what we're in is
we're in a little state where we have a
problem because the new trooper is not
as up to speed and qualified. You know,
he he is he has taken all those tests
and he can do it. He just needs a little
bit of training. So that's what's going
on right now. Jim,
>> you're saying now that you've taken it
right out of any town employee hands,
you don't have to go through the
training.
>> Correct.
>> Town admin doesn't even though he's
taking the applications in.
>> Correct. Yep. Because the trooper is
doing all the background work and
dealing with that. U he's the one coming
back and saying they're qualified and
they've passed the background test.
>> So, I'll work with Jim. We have a little
bit of an issue in that the our our
resident state trip.
>> So,
um we will sit there and work on that.
Um
but yes, uh it's a little bit of a of a
mess because
the trooper blew out his knee playing I
forgot what he was playing.
>> Okay. Can I go back to one more thing,
Jeff, before
>> Sure, no problem. It's your report.
>> So, so um and Apparently, River East
made a bit of a mistake. We didn't want
to put the ad or you folks at this, you
know, didn't want to put the ad in
Thanksgiving week because it was
Thanksgiving week. So, we Kate gave it
to them for the week after. They put in
the job ads for the three positions and
then said, "Go to the website for more
information." And then Kate has the
information. This is for the public
portion of the selection committee. They
did not put in
the call for the public
uh for this selection committee. Um so
it's going to go in but we're we're
going to harass them. We harassed them
today. They didn't get back to us. We'll
harass them tomorrow because it's got to
go in by noon. Uh Kate has received no
responses
from the website posting.
We'll see what we get. I don't know if
you folks have heard anything from
individuals as a uh as a board um people
expressing interest in that but that's
right now it's a gap that we have for
that selection committee.
>> Well the the date on that was the 21st
>> 19
to be
>> okay. So, um, I just recommend to
anybody that's out there to sit there
and and and let people know that might
be interested and sit there and see what
we can do. But get the River East to
post it and let's sit there and see what
we get back for the 19th.
>> That was it.
>> Okay. Anybody have any questions for
Jim?
All right, Jim. Thank you very much.
Appreciate it. I'm sure we'll have more
stuff for you, Jim, as we go through
this. All right. old business. Uh, let's
see. Jim went through the Bunker Hill.
So, Jim went through a B.
>> I have one question on Bunker Hill,
though. And I asked Jim today, maybe you
know, Jeff, when we we were told that
Bunker Hill Bridge was fully funded,
fully reimbursed from the state and fed
federal government. Correct.
>> Correct.
>> Okay. So, the town had put in uh we had
$400 and some odd th,000 in that line
under Capitol Bunker Hill Bridge and it
was identified. Can you tell me where
that 400 and some odd thousand was
deposited?
>> It never gets deposited. It's sitting in
the the bank account for the town.
So, um I think what was the plan was we
were going to have to be spending money.
>> So, what would occur is we would spend
money on the bridge, submit a request
for reimbursement, and then that money
would get reimbursed and it would just
roll over. So, Eric's thought was we'd
have to have some money available,
>> right? because I know we have to have
the money. We have to put that money
out. But I just was looking through the
capital accounts and we have one that's
um titled bridge and culvert. And I
would think that maybe
>> Oh, there's a separate thing, Carol. The
culverts are a totally different thing.
So bridge and culverts are
>> we know we have to put up money on all
those culverts that we have potentially
to do. So we were going to do biz road
next year. We pushed it off so that we
would do the long hill bridge and that's
money that we've been saving to do the
culverts. Now, if there was money that
was put there specifically for Bunker
Hill Bridge, that was just
a holding place to be really honest.
>> Right. So then that 400 I was just
saying if we had one just that was
bridge fund the money could get
deposited back in there and just change
it to longill bridge because so we
should not have to tax our residents
again
>> to have that money in that account
because the 400 and something that we
had in Bunker Hill Bridge we've been
reimbursed. I I don't think we taxed any
resident for Bunker Hill Bridge ever.
>> Yes, we did. We We taxed them at 120,000
one year. Uh I think it was 2223
and 2324.
It was 160,000.
I know.
>> Correct. And then we rolled all that
money into the culvert and the bridge
and culverts so that we could save money
to do all of the culverts in town. And
Carol, we may as well just talk about
this at our next meeting. You can you
can get all the details you want, submit
it to all of the members of the board,
and we'll go through it. But I can sit
there and tell you I get I get accused
of wanting to have higher taxes, but I
know for a fact we never sat there and
taxed.
>> I'm not accusing you of taxes. I'm just
saying
>> it's a joke, Carol.
>> I'm just saying that we put that money
in and that money should be available
there to fund to have the money in the
fund for Long Hill Road Bridge. That's
all I'm asking.
>> That's fine. We'll have to Okay. We'll
What we'll do is we'll ask uh we'll ask
the finance department to give us a an
accounting of all of the funds that are
available and the money that is
available. So, in this situation, that
money is money that we have been putting
aside on a year-to-year basis, saving
money because we know we have to pay 50%
of the covert costs. But I I know that
we never sat there and taxed the
residents on the Bunker Hill Bridge
project. Um
>> because it has been 100% funded
>> since for three years. Yeah,
>> it was it was in the budget though. And
when I did ask Eric about it before he
left, he said that that seed money had
to be in there because we have to pay
the bill first and then get reimbursed.
So yes, we did tax our residents 120,000
one year, 160 another, and it was at 400
and something at one point.
>> Okay. Well, let's look at it. And then,
you know, if we were going to do it,
then that money would just move over to
the culvert fund because we're going to
end up spending money on culverts. So,
>> all right, we'll look at that and we'll
get some data for the next meeting.
Uh, anything else on Jim? Well, let's
just go. Anything on the status of the
veteran field improvement because he
discussed that
>> ghost.
>> Okay. We just um actually no, we got to
do resolutions. I'm sorry, Jim. Where
are they?
>> They're down under new business.
>> They're down under new business. Okay.
All right. We'll wait then. Um uh Niko
Animal Control cancellation. Um what is
the date on that? They're cancelling at
the end of this current fiscal year.
>> Uh I'm not even sure if it extends that
far. I I thought it was more immediate,
actually. So anyway, just what I've been
doing is to try and and deal with it. So
if it's end of the fiscal year, that
actually gives us more time. But I've
reached out to Hebrin and Hebrin's
interested in helping us. However, um
they're in the middle of doing a new
public works facility, which will
include an animal control, a new animal
control. So they're just not ready to
absorb us. But I think once they do
that, they'd be a possible interest. I
reached out to Windham because Windham
was doing an expansion, but I was
advised that from the town that uh the
town engineer actually that um the
expansion there is more office employee
space and it's the facility really isn't
in a condition to help us out. I've
reached out to Mansfield. I haven't
heard back yet. Somebody suggested
Coventry might be another option too. So
I'm exploring options um with that.
>> Okay. With Coventry, reach out to Eric
Eric and sit there and see.
>> Not Anderson, but Eric from public
works. Just sit there and have any
context.
>> All right. Uh 8 D. Uh the review of the
senior transportation garage status. So
for everybody, let's just look at that
together. uh on page 11 and 12 are those
those drawings just everybody you know
we need to sit there and all be on the
same page if we think that is a good
idea so for the next meeting uh once I
can get the money side of it rectified
or reconciled we'll come back and talk
but just on page 12 if you actually
believe that you know uh storage up
there is is positive then
I I know we've talked about it Scott I
just want to make sure that everybody's
on the same page as we move forward and
I'll get the financial reconciliation of
the the numbers done for the next
meeting.
>> Uh construction,
>> he changed it. He changed it so there
would be bays coming in from
one side of that. So the whole trust
system had to be changed.
>> Okay.
>> And to put doors on one side
otherwise you would have to come in from
one end. It would just be roof line on
the front and the back.
Yeah. I mean,
>> so I mean you could keep it with, you
know, walking in one end and, you know,
divide it out in some way, but there
certainly would be a lot more space and
a lot easier to use if you came in from
the side of it.
>> Yeah. If you had garage doors right
there where he has one door laid out,
you just had garage doors and the groups
were had key and you you don't have to
build walls. You just put chain link
fence in there and that's space. Yeah.
Okay. Um,
8E construction inspection services for
Long Hill. Uh, Jim went through that in
his report. Are there any other
questions on that?
No. Okay. Uh, 8F AES RFP for bathroom
renovations. Do we have any additional
information on that, Jim?
>> I don't. I'm gonna have to kind of defer
maybe to you on this because I really
don't.
Well, I don't have anything. Jeff
Murray.
>> Yeah. Yeah. I haven't been updating
this project in general.
>> I haven't heard anything from the
superintendent or the board since our
last meeting.
>> Okay.
>> We'll keep an ear open on for Wednesday,
maybe.
>> Then we'll move on. Um,
uh, HG, uh, AES Transportation.
Um there's been a request
from the superintendent and the well
I'll just say the superintendent uh
regarding the transportation vehicle. Um
the request has been that
uh the town fill the gas up for the
vehicle that they use to pick up the
student and bring the student to and
from school.
um
that bus does not get used fairly uh
significantly by the town. But what I
have asked is I've asked
>> that anytime the town uses that bus,
they fill the tank up with gas. Um,
if the bus is used solely by the school
and the tank is empty, the school has to
take the time to go fill up the gas
tank.
That's basically it.
Any other issues related to
AES transportation?
>> Did you get a response?
>> Oh, I haven't told the school this yet.
I told Tess this. So basically the
request the issue is if we use the bus
anytime we use the bus even if there's
three quarters of a tank of gas in the
bus and we use the bus that we fill it
up
and if we don't use the bus and the
school uses all the gas then the school
needs to fill it up. It's
I mean you're going past the gas station
to pick up the child one way or the
other. So you either plan to go early or
you plan to go on your way back.
It can't really be that hard.
Okay. Anybody else?
All right. Uh 8H the NIP program request
for expenditures. I did not get in touch
with Megan Lai, so I still have to do
that. It's going to have to stay there.
Uh item 8 I Percy Cook Trail preliminary
plan. The U
engineer is going to the board of
education meeting. So that will help
move this potentially along
and get us a uh
uh a design that we may be able to go
back and sit there and get funded.
So um anybody have any questions on 8 I?
Okay 8J discussion and possible action
to the assistant to the community and
senior center director salary and job
description. So um
we have not sat there and signed
resigned that contract. That's something
that I'll get with Jim on and we'll get
that done. Um,
but no, that hasn't happened.
>> My question is the job description is
going to be different because Tess is
the director.
>> So, is the director Tess has been
working on those job descriptions. Um,
>> right.
>> Those
>> Tess, can you send those out to us also
when you get a chance? Right. And I I
know I've seen it, but
>> I do believe you all have those in your
in what I sent to you. Okay. So, we all
need to review those and then get those
back. And so, um, uh, what we'll do is
by email, we'll all communicate and try
to get this done, um, you know, within
the next week so that we can sit there
and have that documented.
>> I still think we should set an hourly
rate for that. Um, we don't have an
hourly rate. I did call around different
towns and the average for the assistant
to the director is 20 to $28 per hour.
I would like to suggest that we
uh pay $24 an hour because right now the
con well Haley doesn't even have a
contract. though I don't know that the
treasurer's office has been instructed
as to what the hourly rate would be, but
the assistant should not be making the
same as the director. So, I would just
like to suggest that we do that at 19
hours at 24 or $25 an hour because like
I say, the range is 20 to 28 per hour.
Coventry is somewhere around $21 an hour
that they pay their assistant.
Um,
and I know we're going to wait to look
at the job description to go over that
with Tess, make sure that
everything works
out to her approval. But I think we
definitely have to set a dollar per hour
amount rather than just keep letting
this go until our next meeting. And if
we don't want to set it tonight, maybe
we should set a meeting, special meeting
for next week to set that hourly dollar
rate after
>> something in the job description. Once
we get an email, uh what I would like to
do, um um what I would like to do is get
with I will get with Jim and we will sit
there and send out an email as to what
the current compensation is and then
we'll all discuss either by email or by
text or by phone what we should set it
at and we will uh have a u an email vote
to sit there and get it approved. Is
that acceptable to everybody?
>> Either way, the email vote would then
constitute a special meeting. So either
way, we have to hold a special meeting
at a certain time
to have that vote.
And like I say, we we have our treasurer
paying out the $34 an hour that we voted
on back last I believe it was August in
public session. No, it was before August
because we extended um
I just think we should
>> let's
like we're we're talking about something
that we don't have all the documentation
in front of us. So for me it's extremely
difficult for the total dollars. Um I
know that we sat there and had a meeting
where we were going to sit there and
compensate uh Haley at the same level.
So what we're doing now is a little bit
different. So, I'd like to have all the
information in front of me, Carol, and
then we can sit there and
>> and I understand that, but we didn't
have documentation when we voted to
initially hire her as interim because
the job description that went under the
interim
director was
had a lot less responsibility.
um but yet still compensated at that $34
per hour. So I'm just saying we have the
range. I called and asked it's 20 to 28
an hour. So
>> I just don't think in public session
this is something we want to do right
now.
>> We've done it before in public session.
again and but
>> we we do everything. If we do it in
public session, it's better because then
our board of finance directly has that
dollar amount. They know what they're
working with. They know how much over.
>> If we had all of the information and all
the documentation at our fingertips, I'd
be sitting there saying, "Okay, if this
was on uh that we were going to actually
get this done at tonight's meeting, I
would be okay with it. I I really would.
But I don't have all the information.
And so if we have to schedule a special
meeting, we're going to end up having to
sk a special meeting. I'm trying to
>> do that tonight for next Monday night.
Schedule a special meeting. And this way
it gives us all time to research.
Talk to Tess. We can throw this out a
little bit during our executive session
too if you'd like.
>> Um,
>> but I think we really need to address
this. I don't really want to do that in
our executive session.
>> Okay, then we won't do that in executive
session. We can hopefully have a special
meeting on Monday and do it right out in
public session.
>> No problem.
Okay. Um,
>> can we do that?
>> You can.
>> So, can you ask if everyone else is I
mean, I don't want to just throw out
Monday if it's not good for everyone
else.
Today is the 8th.
What time does everyone have next week?
>> Monday and Wednesday.
>> Monday and Wednesday. Jeff Hurry, are
you available on Monday?
>> Monday? Yes.
>> Monday? Yes. Okay. 7 o'clock on Monday.
>> Thank you.
>> For a a very quick meeting.
>> Okay. Um Okay. Discussion and possible
action on the board clerk's payroll
request.
So, we had gotten a request from
the board clerk.
Um,
she currently gets paid as a subcont as
a vendor because she meets all the
vendor requirements. She doesn't really
meet payroll requirements,
uh, employee requirements. She's not
controlled by anyone within the town.
She doesn't use town resources. She uses
her own home computer so on. So she has
a request that she
come under the town's
payroll.
Um I spoke to the treasurer. The
treasurer has already made her opinion
that she doesn't believe that she
qualifies as an employee. Um
it's up to the board.
I just we did it in the past when um Jay
came back just to sign off on bills. He
was paid through payroll.
>> We had discussed paying him through
1099, but he went directly through
payroll
>> board9
coming into our office and utilizing our
space to sit there and deal with what he
was doing. There's just little different
rules for employees and then non-emp
employees. So, and listen,
the IRS is more concerned about
people who are employees being paid as
subcontractors than they are about
people who are being paid as employees
that may not qualify. What it does do is
it does put us in some additional
expenses related to social security,
Medicare, and unemployment taxes. And
I'm not sure if it makes us um
I don't believe she qualifies for any of
the other benefits, you know, in her
situation. So,
>> we can't even get board clerks. I
>> just not all of ours.
>> I just don't know how you pay them.
You know, you're going to be given
you're not going to be doing it on an
hourly basis and you're not going to do
it on a salaried basis. It's going to be
a uh it's going to be something that
comes just like a bill. She's going to
present a bill and say put it through
payroll.
Anybody?
What do you suggest?
Well, with all the like even this this
this meeting is being transcribed,
right? I mean, I know. I saw that. Um
um
it's being transcribed. So,
well, let me talk to Marina. Let me sit
there and see what what she really wants
or what she's saying. I mean, she
shouldn't be an employee to be really
honest.
>> Just wants to be paid through payroll.
So, so that all of the
>> which
>> taxes are taken out. That's all.
>> Yeah. Which qualifies as an employee,
which
has us pay social security, Medicare as
a community and has us pay unemployment
taxes as community. So,
all right. Um maybe we can put that on
our next uh on our special meeting as a
quick item. Uh let me
talk
>> to talk to Marina prior to that.
>> Yep. And then we'll have a I mean it's
it's you know reality is
it's a
no one controls the work of the board
clerk. The board clerk does their job,
submits a document, the document gets
reviewed, they make changes. There's
nothing.
It's really not an employee position.
But let me talk to Marina and we'll put
it on the agenda for next Monday.
Anybody
else on that one?
Okay. Uh 8 L discussion and possible
action on prior acting town clerk salary
request.
>> Okay. So at our last meeting, Jeff, you
said that you were going to check with
the treasurer to get the dollar amount
that was paid. Did you have a chance to
talk with her on that?
>> I did not talk to her about that issue.
No.
Okay. So, I did talk with the uh prior
not the last acting town clerk, but the
one before and
the she's just acting asking to be
compensated
the same as the
acting town clerk that came in after her
for 11 weeks was compensated. She was
the acting town clerk from February 2nd
until August 22nd.
She was paid um the assistant town clerk
salary which was $20.50
per hour from February until I believe
it was June. But what I did was I took
the acting um I took the town clerk
salary which is what the um one of the
acting town clerks was paid. She was
giving the given the town clerk salary
and was not required to work the 34
hours a week. Could select their own
hours and I was checking the website. It
was basically no more than 30 hours
every week. So the town clerk salary
figures out to be $1,11058
per week.
The assistant would have worked for 29
weeks from February 1st to August 22nd,
which would have meant that she should
have been compensated at $32,26.82.
She was compensated
at she was paid $19,322.95
for those months.
If you take the difference of the two,
she was shortch changed by $12,88387.
So
>> last time you told us it was 57. I
thought it was around 5,000 because what
I did and 5,000 something 6,000 because
what I did was I calculated the
difference of the $6 per hour for the
last couple of months because if you
remember we discussed increasing from
the $2050
an hour to 28. So yes, I had a very
large miscalculation there, but these
are actual figures. I asked for the
actual gross that she was paid. Um,
and I honestly feel that we owe that to
her. She was the acting town clerk. The
argument before was that I was in the
office training her. Well, I just looked
on our
uh last month's
QuickBook report and
there was another town clerk that was in
there assisting
the last acting town clerk, too. So, the
situation is the same. There was someone
in there working to help. I was only
there the 19 hours a week because that's
all that I could work once I retired.
So I'm just acting asking that we are
fair and that we pay her the amount that
she is owed.
>> Okay. First thing is she wasn't
appointed to the town clerk until like
the last two weeks
>> when there is no town clerk. state law
mandates that you have an acting town
clerk.
>> Okay?
>> You might not have appointed her,
>> but one of the uh contracts or
employment letters, I don't know what
you'd like to call it, but in that
packet that Eric had sent out after my
request
did say she was the acting town clerk
from February 1st.
So,
state law said we might not have done
that. We might not have physically
said that we appoint her as acting,
but she had to be because you can't not
have an acting town clerk.
>> Okay. And what were you paid for the 19
hours that you worked from the
>> I was paid $60 per hour.
>> The clerk that the clerk that came in to
assist with the second person was paid
$50 per hour. So yes, I was I was
that person from union 19 hours.
>> That doesn't even matter. That doesn't
even matter.
>> We just got to sit there. We got to just
sit there and go this way.
>> Previous
one second, Scott. One second.
>> 10 hours.
>> One second. The previous individual was
hired as the assistant town clerk, was a
member of the union and sat there and
held that position.
>> It was a union position, but she was not
a member of the union. The town
employees cannot position that you as
the previous town clerk hired.
We as a board cannot hire an assistant
town clerk. We can only hire a temporary
town clerk to deal with the issue that
we dealt with when this individual
resigned.
Right. So now you're coming back to us
and you're telling us that we owe her
somewhere between what? $13,000. You're
trying to say
>> 1288387.
>> Okay.
Um
>> because the other
forget the other forget the drama.
Forget the drama related to the other's
the other town clerk that we as a board
had to appoint. Forget that. Let's deal
with the
>> There's no drama. It's fact.
>> Did we ever vote? No. Did we ever vote
on
a secondary salary?
For who? For the union individual from
the the the person
>> for the acting
>> the person that we appointed that we had
to appoint Lauren Persan that we had to
appoint because we were in a situation
where we had no one going into an
election and who went in there and did
that level of work. We can only appoint
an acting town clerk. So she got the
acting town clerk wage.
But what is the acting town clerk wage?
The town clerk's salary.
>> Isn't that what she got?
>> That is what she got. Yes.
>> Okay. Then that's her wage.
>> But
so when we appointed the other as the
acting town clerk,
>> I didn't appoint her. I didn't want to
appoint her. I didn't want to appoint
her. And we only appointed her,
technically only appointed her for the
last two weeks because we were forced by
the Secretary of State's office.
>> It was the Department of Public Health
and
I believe it was a little bit more than
two weeks, but I'm not sure. But you we
did vote and set the hourly rate at $28
per hour for that acting town clerk.
It was in our motion. $28 an hour.
>> That is exactly what we did. And there
is an employment letter from Eric in
that packet. Yes.
>> Well, if there's a disc there's two
different issues here. One is the issue
of of this $13,000
back pay which you're discussing and if
you need to bring a different issue and
we need to reconcile a different issue,
we will go do that. But that's a
separate issue. Two different issues.
Let's deal with the first one,
>> okay?
>> That's on the agenda. And if and if you
have another issue related to the town
clerk's off uh office and that we have
an overpayment to the previous acting
town clerk, we'll sit there and deal
with that. All right. But on a deal with
this one for the prior individual,
if you want to make a motion to pay
back wages like that, you make that
motion and go ahead.
I would like to make the motion that we
pay the
prior acting town clerk $12,883
87.
>> Anybody want to second that?
>> I'll second that.
>> Okay. Second.
>> We had this discussion last month and I
said delta
There was there was there was a
discussion that
there was times that Carol was in there
where we were paying Carol as a
consultant and then Britney was there.
Now if Britney was there the period that
Britney was there alone without anybody
else in that office I would consider her
the Octing Town clerk. So whatever
though whatever that date is to the time
she left
is a number. I don't think I don't know
if it's the 12,000 because I Carol I
think you were there during that some of
that period right or no?
>> So I was there um until the end of June
officially
but
I'm trying to I know
>> I think before we were talking like six
weeks right there was like a six week
thing. So there would have been seven
weeks
between July and August.
>> And then there were a couple of weeks
too in there that I wasn't there. I was
way on vacation.
>> Yeah, that happens all the time. I mean,
if you go on vacation,
>> we don't pay the assistant that salary.
But I'm just saying the time that she
was there alone in that office is the
time I would consider her acting town
clerk.
I don't know what the amount is because
we're we've got two different amounts
>> now. You're down to six or seven weeks,
Jeff Murray.
>> Well, that's that's what I thought we
talked about.
>> And then you're talking about what she
was paid versus what Carol thinks she's
owed.
Certainly isn't $12,800.
>> All right. So, so what we're seeing
>> she got a boost. She got a boost those
last two weeks, right?
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. Because she was she was the town
clerk for two weeks.
>> 28 an hour is what she was given.
>> Well, let's vote on this first one. So,
what was what was she pay? What was she
paid before we even do we
>> What was she paid
>> before she got the raise?
before she Okay, so it was $20.50
per hour is was the union contracted
hourly rate for the assistant town
clerk. July 1, that hourly rate went up
to 21 in change because there was a 3%
increase in the hourly.
Okay. So, I'm just trying to think the
delta between what she the 28 and the 21
and then the time period. So, so she was
getting the full 28 for two weeks. And
so, if we're talking a six week period,
she was getting the full 28 the last two
weeks. And she didn't she never said
anything bad like I wasn't getting paid
enough or
and then so then we'd have the
>> We had the meeting though, Jeff. There
was
>> I tried to get her the hourly rate of
the town clerk, but there was the
argument that
>> other employees would, you know. Yeah.
So,
>> so that was
>> And what's the town clerk's salary per
hour
now?
>> Yeah, it's 30 something per hour. I
didn't figure out hourly. I just figured
weekly because the town clerk's salary
is based on a 34hour work week.
So,
>> but actually that's even a good
question. who sets that salary?
>> So, actually the board of selectman
does. I know um every year when we go
forward for the raises,
it's in that uh budget worksheet that
we're given.
>> So, as a as a
as an elected official, the board of
selectmen sets that salary. You said all
salaries. Yes.
>> Well, I know we set all salaries, but
that's actually an interesting one. Let
me look at that.
>> Okay. Uh, so what are we doing with the
motion that's on the table?
>> I'm I'm trying to I was just trying I'm
sorry, the hourly. Um,
so the 57750
is 326
66 an hour. Joe
>> 32.66 and before she was making 21,
right?
>> Yes. $20.50
>> $116.
>> I got $12.16.
I put something in wrong.
You said it was 32.
It's all 32.
>> Hang on.
Okay,
I'm sorry. I I cleared my calculator.
>> Write it down.
>> How many weeks are you doing?
>> So, divided by uh 34 hours, it's 3266.
And I wrote it down.
>> Okay. She was m she was making 20
>> 2050
>> $20.50.
>> Okay,
>> 60.
>> So I got a difference of $12.16 an hour.
>> Okay.
>> So, and so what hour you said that was a
36-hour work week or 32?
>> 34. 34. So if you time that difference
times 34
>> work week and it times four weeks,
>> it would be seven weeks.
>> I mean I still come up with 28 89 32.
There's the difference.
So if you take the difference between
what she was making and that times 7
weeks, 34 hours a week, 28.89 89.
I just think she came in, she did the
job, she did a good job for all that
time. Um,
>> I guess question, Carol, when you were
there training her, who signed off as
town clerk? When you had to have
something that the town clerk officially
had to do?
>> She signed off as a town clerk.
>> I could not sign off.
>> You did not. So
>> I could not legally I could not.
>> Right. So Carol was not the town clerk
at that time. This other the other one
was the acting town clerk since
February. So I think she should be paid
the amount from February.
>> Do we even know if she was working the
hours?
>> You can shake your head an
hour. He absolutely worked a minimum of
26 hours per week.
>> No, that's not what we're saying. Did
she work 34 hours or or 20 hours or 12?
Yes, she worked a minimum of 26 hours
every week and then she bumped up to 30
hours per week, which was the same hours
that the clerk's office was open for
August through November.
I just think it's only fair that we
treat employees fairly.
>> I think it's inconsistent. I think it
sets a bad precedent and I think she was
a union employee that was hired as an
assistant town clerk and un she
understood that
>> she helped.
>> And I have a major problem. Carol, I'm
sorry. One last thing. I have a major
problem with how we got here.
That's what I have a problem with.
Carol,
I just think we need to be clear with
the employees.
She worked. She earned that money. And
I'm sorry. I hear what you're saying,
Jeff, as far as the difference in the
hours and when she was there alone. But
being alone or having someone work with
her, what is the difference? Because
we had someone else working who had
someone there in the office too.
So
>> stop
and deal with this separately.
So if this is the issue,
let's stop tying tying the issue that we
had to address after Britney resigned.
Stop address tying them together. Let's
deal with them separately because
they are honestly two different things.
So what are we doing with the prior
assistant town clerk?
Do you want to vote on the the motion to
pay her $12,800
or whatever the number was?
Because I I'd like to call it for a
vote. Let's go.
Anybody further discussion on it or are
we going to revise the motion? What do
we want to do?
I mean, the time that she was there,
like I said, my 2889 number,
that's the time she was working there
alone as the town clerk. That's that's
how I see it.
>> Jeff Murray,
>> you have didn't work.
>> Wait, just Carol, just wait a second,
please. Let me talk. You You went back
and checked somebody else's hours prior
to this. So, this whole thing has to be
done also and find out exactly how many
hours Britney was paid for. Not just
have seven weeks or since last February.
It has to be an exact thing. We're
working for the town. It's just
taxpayers money.
>> Oh, I agree.
>> Yeah. Well, I mean, Scott, what I'm
saying is the town clerk, acting town
clerk is supposed to be there 34 hours a
week. That's what just Carol just said.
So, if there she's getting paid for I'm
just saying just just to total up for
seven weeks. The difference is that 2889
number.
>> But can I just ask you Jeff, why is it
that when she was working alone when we
already had the other person had an
assistant working with them?
>> I don't but I I I'm just I just want to
discuss this.
>> Not an assistant had a private.
>> She was the assistant town clerk and
then you left in July
and she was there. She was there alone.
So I consider the day you left and she
was there basically manning the office,
she was the town clerk from there on. So
she should have been getting the full
town clerk salary,
>> which is the difference between 3266 and
the 2050. But if we had another acting
town clerk who also had someone in there
as a consultant
for $50 per hour,
what is the difference? Why would there
be a difference whether I was the person
physically in there as the training
consultant
or the other individual from the union
town clerk was in there as the training
consultant.
>> That is all I'm saying. So to be fair
across the board with the employees,
this is only fair
It's only fair to treat everyone the
same.
We had a law a lawsuit back in 22
because an employee wasn't treated
fairly that cost us $11,000.
So
why would we not want to treat someone
fairly?
The situation is exactly the same. Well,
the only difference was that after
Britney left, that person was
immediately appointed acting town clerk.
>> So, they were acting. So, but but the
only time Britney was appointed acting
town clerk, I would assume, would be
those seven weeks,
>> but Jeff, we have to have an acting town
clerk, regardless of whatever
voting or whatever you want to call it.
She was the acting town clerk. She acted
in every capacity because there was no
one else there to do so.
>> She was hired.
>> She was the acting.
>> She was hired by you in your capacity as
the town clerk as the assistant town
clerk.
>> That is correct.
>> That's right.
>> She held that position until she left
our employment.
I believe that state law says you have
to have an acting town clerk
and that is exactly what she did. She
acted as the town clerk because
>> I could not sign. There's no one else
that could sign as town clerk.
>> Okay. Are we are we voting on this
issue? because I'd like to I'd either
I'd either like to vote on this issue
and move on or I would like to sit there
and table it and get refined numbers and
come back so that you guys can have
something that you may agree to because
I'm I mean I'm definitely not
authorizing I'm not voting to pay an
employee that resigned
$12,000 for something for prior work
where We
no she's a union employee. It's a
terrible precedent. It's terrible even
be discussing.
>> She might have held a union position,
>> but she was not deemed a union. She did
not
join the union.
>> She may not have joined the union. She
was hired in a position, the assistant
town clerk's position.
So, what would the board like to do?
>> Do you want to vote on it?
>> I just don't have enough information.
I'm going to I just
>> You got to You have to go over her
hours, her exact hours.
>> Okay.
>> Did she clock in? Was her time cards
kept for that period of time?
>> I'm clocked in. Did Did anyone else
clock in? I'm just curious.
Well, I just didn't know. That's why I'm
just asking a question.
>> No, no, but what I'm wondering is, you
know,
were hours were the hours
>> wondering if you're wondering if the
individual that we appointed as the
acting town clerk clocked in. Is that
what you're worried about?
>> Yes. I'm not worried about it. I'm
asking if we're going to compare ours. I
would I would assume that the the the uh
>> I I'm
won't assume anything. Let's let's sit
there. Let's sit there and just vote on
this. I I'm going to sit there and call
it and then we can then bring it back up
again. So, any further questions
and creme?
>> What is that? Is that a yes or a no? the
the yes that I think we should pay her.
>> That's fine. You voted yes. Thank you.
Uh Caroli,
>> I think we should pay her. It's only
fair.
>> All right, Jeff Murray,
>> I'm gonna abstain because I don't have
enough information to make a decision.
>> I don't I mean I'm
get it. Scott Person
>> am an engineer. I want to see the
>> No. No.
>> Scott Persona. No. Jeff Magcguire. No.
So, so, uh, 221, uh, we will sit there
and, uh, get more information and bring
this up at our next meeting.
>> I will change my vote if I see the data.
I want to see the data.
>> Okay. All right.
Where are we?
Um
discussion uh 8mm discussion of possible
action on rental policy and fees for the
use of the community and senior center.
>> Carol
>> Tess had sent us over a rental agreement
with
suggested
fees for that.
>> Listen, is Tess on? Why can't Tess talk
on in regards to this? She can, but we
really need to include it in our packet.
But go ahead, Tess. How are you?
>> I'm good.
>> Perfect.
>> All right. Um, the rental agreement.
Tess, where are we with what you're
thinking?
>> I did send over a draft. If you guys
want to agree with that, that would be
great. If not, if you have any edits,
then we'll go with um we need your
approval.
>> You need our approval. Yep. Okay. Um,
since it's not in our packet, we need
>> It should It should have been in the
packet. No, I sent it over.
>> I didn't see it. I didn't see it.
>> You did not see it?
>> No.
>> Can we add that to our Monday?
>> That's what that is going to recommend,
Carol. Yeah.
>> Right.
>> Because then this way they can start
charging for use of the facility.
>> Okay.
All right. So, we'll talk about that
later. Um,
uh, we're going to go to 8 uh 8N, which
is, uh, discussion and action on the
town of Andover, uh, corrective action
plan for the fiscal year audit ended,
uh, June 30th, 2024.
So, um
I had uh uh
I had a call with the auditor last week
um
>> on
>> Wednesday
and uh
there is an issue there there are
multiple issues and and and honestly
most of this deals with um the free flow
of information between um all
departments within the community,
specifically the board of education to
the treasurer, which there is not an ex
there's not a good relationship at that
point within our community right now.
So, the issue that's been up there, um
let me try to explain this as as simply
as I can. So, uh,
on a monthly basis, we send money to the
board of education. Um,
it's a a monthly amount that gets
submitted, it gets remitted to the board
of education and the board of education
deposits it into its bank account.
Um, the board of education
um, sits there and manages that money.
And
what our treasurer was attempting to do
was take the check registers and
input that information into our records
on the town side so that she could come
up with a
monthly number of what had been spent
and not been spent about out of the
money that had been remitted to the
board of education. um
with the information that the treasurer
had that reconciliation was a little bit
of a mess and I spoke to the auditor and
what I think uh we need to do is we need
to not reconcile it exactly the way the
prior treasurer was reconciling it but
but take the documentation from the
school board that they submit at their
monthly meetings and post that
information. So the information that
comes from the school board is the for
the people that understand it the uh
budget uh to actual
numbers that come monthly. And because
on the town side there's only one
number, we should only have to post the
bottom number. So, what that would do is
on our books, if we if we submitted uh
or remitted a million dollars to the
board of education and the board of
education only has $500,000 of expenses
that they post on their monthly um
budget to actual expenditures, that
would mean that there would be a
$500,000 cash balance on the town side.
Uh and those expenses would be then
sitting there. So, I spoke to Michael. I
have to rewrite a little bit of what uh
uh Eric wrote and I have to put in a new
procedure for the treasurer so that we
don't sit there and have these problems.
But again, a lot of these issues are
information and the free flow of
information between the organizations
and it's something that I need the board
of finance to weigh in on and get
engaged in because it's really on the
board of finance. Uh even this cap is on
the board of finance. It gets handled
through the town, but it's really a
board of finance issue. So, I'm working
on that. I have to get it done because
there's obviously some issues that
there's there's some uh information that
the
grants are going to be held up, but
that's not really the case. It's just
the a check your box for um the entity
within the state side to get that capit
done. So, it is on my plate. Um
and
Michael is uh the town auditor is
understanding. So, he and I had a
discussion as to how it could be done.
Um, and we're going to have to work with
the next treasurer to sit there and make
that happen correctly.
>> And I just asked about the corrective
action plan. I had just asked for some
information on it. And isn't it just
like a letter
>> that you're supposed to work together
with the school
>> and send that out to
>> So So we all understand our
relationships, right? We all get it. So
there was they worked on it. Um they
didn't work on it the way that they
should have worked on it. and a
submission was made that the treas that
the auditor approved. Uh
the superintendent then complained about
it and now we're here because you know
she was unhappy with the wording, maybe
rightfully so, but she's unhappy with
the wording. So now I'm dealing with
auditor and the auditor is not happy
because the auditor just wants to submit
it so he can check the box and say he
did it. He doesn't want to have to sit
there and deal with um complaining from
both sides as to what has to happen and
doesn't happen. But yes, it is a written
document that one paragraph that sits
there and says this is what we're going
to do. This was identified by the
auditor. This is what's going to change,
>> right? because I have the auditor's
findings here and it just says um the
responses to our findings should be a
collaborative effort and then they give
recommendations as to what was going on
within the um
>> we weren't good at
>> I'm sorry
>> we were not good at collaborative
So
>> you okay? So are you going to be working
with the school on this as the
collaborative or are we going to h ask
Jim to do that just so that
>> I will I will have the plan.
>> I will work with the school on that. I
will I will rewrite it. I have I have
met with Valerie on this as well. So, I
have what Valerie would like to say and
I have what Eric wrote. I have what
Michael approved. And then we've got to
make a little bit different. And so,
what I had to do is I had to get with
Michael, the auditor, and get an
understanding of exactly what he was
trying to say in his recommend in his
finding. So, now I understand what he's
saying.
>> I'll go in my office.
>> All right. Uh, does anybody have any
other questions related to that?
>> Yeah, I'm on mute.
>> No, you're not.
>> Oh, you're not.
>> Mute him, will you?
>> I was saying in talking to Valerie, the
superintendent, she had hoped that this
would have been a month done a month
ago, and you had promised that it would
be getting done. So, I'm hoping that
you're doing it soon.
>> I will get it done. I would have hoped
it never came up.
So, okay.
Um,
okay. So, that was the end of that one.
So, we're not in that section anymore.
So, the only other item we added was
later. So, um, new business, Hop River
contracts.
So in our packet
um
>> op river homes also that needs to be
changed if we have to revisit this.
>> Okay. So um
>> you need a recap
>> is that
>> page 1819.
>> Yeah it's 1819. So this had been in
place. This this abatement had been in
place.
>> Um
listen, we have no more use for that
field. So we have no real use for the
for the field that's over there. Um
it really becomes a question and what
we're going to have to do is get with
the um
this group. Is that abatement really
necessary to to keep the uh the rent? I
mean, they're in stabilized rent homes.
Everybody that lives there has
some need. And I'm not sure that their
rent's going to go up if this town
doesn't have this uh tax abatement in
place. And really, that's the key. I
believe most of them have either section
8 um supplementing the rent and the
other I think there were
26 or something that were section 8 and
then there were eight that were
department of agriculture.
Um and I think part of the abatement
we're supposed to get their financial
reports too to go over things.
>> Yeah. I mean
>> when we start thinking about this and
have we talked with the assessor and the
tax collector
on this abatement to get their input.
>> Well then why don't we move this again
to our next meeting and sit there and
get that. I mean I've talked to the tax
collector have not the assessor. Um,
it's just a question in my mind. If if
the field if the softball field is no
longer important to the community, then
there's really no reason for the lease,
honestly. Um,
and if there's no reason for the lease,
then it's a question of is the abatement
necessary or not? Is it are we giving an
abatement to the management company or
are we giving an abatement to the
tenants? If we're given an abatement to
the tenants, I got I have no problem. If
we're given if we're given an abatement
to the management company, I have a
problem.
>> So, let's sit there and I'll go do
enough work and we'll talk with Jim
about what we might need and get some
feedback from John Trapponus so that we
get an understanding of what we're
doing. So,
all right. Um,
So, uh, 8B, uh,
resolution to appoint Elaine Bukard to
the Vernon area cable advisory committee
and the state video advisory committee
as the Andover representative. So, I'll
make a motion that um the Andover Board
of Selectmen appoint Elaine Bukard to
represent the town of Andover with the
Vernon Area Cable Advisory Commission
and the State Video Advisory Commission
for an indefinite indefinite or for a
two-year period of time. Um
for a two-year period of time, the town
uh served the town the town served in
the Vernon area, Comcast region, and
over Hein, Ellington, Bolton, Vernon,
and Tolland. Elaine has represented the
town on both commissions since 2015.
>> Actually, it's been I just looked it up.
It's been since 2012 that I've been on
the committees.
>> And you have been doing a phenomenal job
taping.
>> I I just didn't know if people had a
question about what they are.
>> There you go. Um anyway, um somebody
want to second that?
>> I'll second that, Jeff.
>> Scott, second that. Further discussion
on this issue. Elaine has been doing it
uh without approval. I I made it two
years, Elaine, because I actually think
we can only appoint for two years. I
don't necessarily know we can we could
probably roll it over, but we may as
well just put this on the agenda every
two years on a calendar.
>> Well, well, it's actually not a a town
commission at all. Right.
>> I mean, it's a state and an and a region
commission
um that I represent Andover for.
>> So, it really shouldn't be treated as a
town commission where, like you said,
you've got two-year appointments.
>> Oh, it's a it's a town appointment,
right?
>> Um it's it's uh it's a actually a state
in a Vernon um area region commission
board. um that was set up by the state
of Connecticut to go ahead and have
these advisory boards as a complaint
department. We directly
um
represent all of the cable users
um in the state um or in my area. So
Vernon area is for the area, the state
is for the whole state of Connecticut.
um and they um look for people to
represent the towns of which there's
room for two Andover representatives,
but nobody else has ever shown any
interest in doing it. Um
>> so, so
>> that's why I say it's not like a
two-year appointment. It's a basically
I'm representing
Okay. So, we're appointing you on behalf
of the town of Andover. That's the only
reason you could be coming to this
board.
Um, that's what I've been told. I mean,
I've been serving it.
>> So, you've been doing it. I get it. I
get it. What this board can do is
appoint you on behalf of the residents
of the town of Andover. That's all we
can do. We We don't have any other
authority. Have no authority over that
board. Nothing. We're just appointing
you as a representative for the
community, the the town of Andor. So,
>> correct.
>> Scott seconded. Anybody else? And I and
and uh
I hate doing an indefinite period of
time. It has nothing to do with you,
Elaine. It just has to do with this
board will eventually not be here in two
years and and it becomes problematic. So
um
>> yeah,
>> two years.
Um anybody have any other issues? Annih.
Carol Lee.
>> Hi.
>> Jeff Murray. Hi
>> Scott Person.
>> Hi
>> Jeff Magcguire. I 5 nothing Elaine.
Thank you very much for everything you
do. It's great.
>> Thank you Elaine.
>> Thank you.
>> Thankless job. Thank you very much.
>> It all is
>> discussion and possible action on a
resolution to authorize Jeffrey
Magcguire to execute all documents
associated with the Andover
Municipal Parking Hub grant.
>> Okay. Um so the purpose of C is a
similar purpose uh as E um with regard
to this grant and the steep grant. So
I'm not explaining it twice is that uh
with the DEC financial assistance
agreement and the um resolution that was
passed for those two grants. uh Eric
Anderson is shown and was was approved
and appointed as the and authorized to
be the signatory for all documents.
Obviously, that can't happen anymore.
So, the suggestion is it might be an
interim position that um we make the
first selectman the authorized
signatory.
>> Anybody have any problem with me signing
on behalf of the town on these grants?
>> No. Thank you very much for doing that,
Jeff.
>> Well, no, we're gonna we're going to
make a resolution. So, um
>> I know
>> um I make a resolution to authorize
Jeffrey Magcguire to execute all
documents associated with the Andover
Municipal Parking Hub Grant.
>> Second.
>> And Crema seconded. She got her hand up
first. Uh further discussion. All right.
Anni.
Uh, Carol Lee,
>> hi.
>> Jeff Murray,
>> Scott Person,
>> hi.
>> Jeff Magcguire, I um item uh 9D, a
discussion and possible action on a
resolution authorized Jeffrey McGuire to
execute all documents assoc associated
with the Andover Recreation Facility
Enhancement
Phase 2 Grant. um the legislative
appropriation.
Um I'll make a motion uh I'll make a
resolution I'll make a motion to
authorize Jeffrey Magcguire to execute
all documents associated with the
Andover Recreation Facility Enhancement
Phase 2 grant.
Actually, I'm going to reward that. a
phase 2 legislative appropriation grant.
>> Second that
>> Scott Persson seconded that. Further
discussion
uh
Ann, how do you vote?
>> Hi.
>> Earl Lee,
>> hi
>> Jeff Murray.
>> Hi.
>> Scott Person.
>> Jeff Magcguire. All right. Um 9E discuss
discussion and possible action on a
resolution to authorize Jeff Maguire
Jeffrey Magcguire to execute all
documents associated with the Andover
Recreation Facility Enhancement Grant uh
steep grant. I'm going to take care of
the I'm going to get rid of the the
phase two. It's supposed to be phase
one. There's some phase program in
there. So the motion is to authorize
Jeffrey Magcguire to execute all
documents associated with the Andover
Recreation Facility Enhancement STE
Grant.
Who wants
>> Scott Pan seconded that further
discussion? And Crara
Lee.
>> Hi.
>> Jeff Murray.
>> Scott Person.
>> Hi.
>> Jeff Maguire. Five nothing on that vote
as well. Um 9F discussion and possible
action regarding an agreement with LNC
Park Consultants LLC for Veterans Field
Management Services. Um
this is an agreement that we've had in
place and Scott is much more
knowledgeable than I am with uh the
prior Hebrrons Park and Recck director
for
um management of the soil. Correct,
Scott?
>> Yes.
>> Okay. And where is that document, Jim?
Just so I'm not
>> page 29.
>> Page 29. So I had gone through this. So
and the total dollars associated with
this contract.
>> It's a little odd. The the term is for
calendar year 26. The payments are made
in fiscal years, but it's $2,000.
Um $1,000
for
the remainder of fiscal year 2526. I
assume we haven't made any payments.
um
on this yet and then for 2627.
>> So it's it's it's just it's an odd
contract in that respect.
>> Okay. So it's $2,000.
>> $2,000. Yeah.
>> Okay.
>> And to I could Could I add something
that
>> Absolutely. Please.
>> The Ram Youth
Lacrosse
is uh interested in using
the field, the facilities. They have uh
I think 13 or 14 teams and there's like
20 20 per team. They're interested in
using that RA. So, it's a Ram, you know,
it's all the towns.
>> Okay.
>> It's a very good thing.
>> So,
um can you tell us what I forgot his
name? I want I want to remember his
name. I've got it there.
>> Rich. Rich Karco, what does just talk
talk to the board about what Rich does.
So you
>> Rich goes down there weekly and uh
>> walks the whole field,
walks it completely over the whole
field, checks the condition of the
grass. He checks uh water samples. He
checks uh how heavy how
firm the soil is. I'm compaction. I
think it is compaction.
um you know uh temperature of the soil
all different kind of things he sends me
reports sends them to he'll be sending
them to uh Jim now also and uh he does
that weekly
and he does a great job you know I go
down there constantly also and you know
I got to reaffirm what he's finding but
um you know he's a very good consultant
that you know does a good job down there
>> and and doesn't he sit there and and
provide information for Hein Parks and
Recreck as far as
>> all of their applications come through
Rich Clark, right?
>> All right. Just so everybody understands
what it's about and what he does for the
community.
>> Yeah.
>> Hebrin takes care of everything, but
Rich is the doctor.
>> Okay.
>> He still maintains our fields, but these
this is the person who goes and checks
it every week. Scott.
>> Yes.
>> He does the soil. He does the soil
management. He gives them a plan as to
what they're supposed to do to fertilize
the field,
>> feed, fertilize, checks everything out
down there. So, I'm going to make a
motion that we uh approve the agreement
the with LNC Park Consultants LLC for uh
Veteran Field uh turf management
services.
>> Second that.
>> Um further discussion.
All right. Ann, how do you vote?
And voted yes. Carol Lee,
>> hi. Jeff Murray.
>> Hi,
>> Scott Person.
>> Hi, Jeff.
>> Magguire. Okay. Um, item 10, approval of
minute meetings for uh our regular
meeting held uh November 10th, 2025.
Come on, somebody else make a motion.
Does everybody read it?
>> Yeah. Go ahead.
>> Yeah.
Anybody got any changes? Anything they
want to make?
question
>> under correspondence
when they re uh receiving the letter
from RAM regarding the grant funding the
town AES is receiving. Um has that seed
money been released to AES
at this point?
>> Uh it hasn't.
>> Why not?
>> Because we haven't voted on it. I don't
think we've gotten the information from
the other communities.
I know we've got a request from RAM.
>> Yeah. But it's gonna This is staying
with AES, I believe.
>> So, it should be released to AES. Now,
>> the only correction I wanted was under
public speak. had Caitlyn came in to ask
us um
to address the corrective action plan.
So, I don't I think that should be in
there.
What other
other than adding that that's the only
thing I saw under public speak
because that's when she presented.
So add
Caitlyn Greenhouse
corrective action plan
needs to be sub.
Okay. Anything else?
I make a motion that we approve the uh
board minutes for Monday, November 10th
with the addition of
adding to public speak that Caitlyn
Greenhouse, the board of education
chairperson, spoke regarding the need to
submit the Kappa
uh corrective action plan for fiscal
school year ended June 30th, 2024.
>> Second.
>> Seconded by Carol Lee. Further
discussion?
Uh Ann, how do you vote?
>> Stained. I wasn't there.
>> Okay. Uh Carol Lee.
>> Hi.
>> Jeff Murray.
>> Hi. Scott Person.
>> Scott Person said yes. Jeff Magcguire.
So 401
uh with an creme being the abstaining
member.
Okay. So um we have the treasurer's
report that spans page 42 through 46.
Does anybody have any questions related
to it?
Okay. Um,
we have tax collectors reports that span
page 45
through um
really 68.
Any questions? Any issues? Anybody
bringing up anything?
The only question I have and I'm sorry
on the treasurers. Did we actually get
the check registry in this month's
report?
>> It did not come in this
>> I didn't see it. So
>> there's not a lot of those items in
there. There's not the town a road
report. There's not um
I mean I know she's in the middle of the
audit. She had the auditors in last
week. Um
but yeah, we didn't get anything other
than item A.
Okay. Anything on the tax collector
side?
So the tax collector received $193,000
in the month of November.
Um,
she continues, Kate continues to work on
back collections. She gives a list of
the highest unpaid
tax payers within the community. Always
interesting reading. Always interesting
to see who's on the list.
And then she comes down to
uh
tax refunds. So, anybody have any other
questions or anything that you want to
discuss on the other documents? No. If
not, I'm going to make a motion that we
approve uh tax refunds totaling $2262
um for the
period ended 128 2025.
>> Second.
>> Seconded by Carol Lee. Further
discussion,
how do you vote?
I she votes yes. Carol Lee.
>> Hi.
>> Jeff Murray.
>> Scott Person.
>> Jeff Magcguire. I Okay. Um item 13,
departmental reports. Anybody have any
questions for any of the reports that
were submitted?
>> Delight report.
>> Okay.
and and you know on the the finest
department reports. We used to get a
very detailed town a road report
monthly.
>> Yes, we need to start getting that.
>> We we don't get it at all anymore.
Anything?
>> I have not seen that. No.
>> In years.
>> Um
we're going to start getting that. So
there's more information that we need to
start getting. I would like to I I have
to be seeing the check registers. So
that has to be in the packet.
Um any questions with any of the other
reports?
Okay.
Building reports in there
only $3,336
of permits.
need to look at that.
>> Did you Did you look at the permits?
>> Yeah, I looked at some of them.
>> Look at more.
>> Some of them look uh real and other ones
look not so real.
>> Real low.
Okay,
>> I'm going to call the building official
and find out if if he is going over
those things or not.
Jeff Murray, do you do you go over that?
>> What's that?
>> The the build the building permit
reports and see
>> I just looked I just looked I just
looked at it. I glanced over it today
earlier. Yes.
>> You see some of the numbers in there
were they seem very very low to me. I
mean, I got a
something done 10 years ago that was
more money than what they reported.
Now,
>> doesn't really matter because once the
assessor comes in anyways, it gets
assessed for whatever value.
>> It was a swimming pool deck or whatever,
it's still going to get excessed for
whatever square footage it is.
>> But we still won't get the permit money.
We don't get the permit money accurate
permit money.
>> Well, how do you how do you do that? How
do you how do you um
>> Well, we were supposed to uh have the
building official go over every
estimate.
>> I mean, you can use Well, he probably
doesn't have access to means estimating
like that would estimate all your
construction costs.
>> The last time you saw a permit that had
an exact number on it, you know.
>> Well, the problem is you're never going
to get an exact number.
>> Doesn't happen. Well, I what what just
as a side things because we don't want
to get too far off, but how much would
that means software cost
>> means?
>> Yeah,
>> you'd have to be trained. You'd have to
learn learn how to use it, too. So,
>> okay.
>> So, I I don't know what kind of rabbit
hole we would go down by doing that,
>> but you could just do a general thumb
for like a deck. You could figure out,
you know, x amount for per square foot.
Well, that's what we've been talking
about for years and trying
>> X amount per square foot, but it all
depends what you know there's different
conditions and tiers. So,
>> okay. Um,
all right. Anybody else have any other
questions on any of the other reports
that are in our packet?
All right. I'm going to move on. There's
no correspondence on item 14. We're
going to move on to public speak. Um,
uh, Katherryn Hutchinson.
>> I have nothing. Thank you.
>> All right. Thank you very much, Liz
Latch.
>> Nothing from me. Thank you,
>> Joanne Heert.
>> Hi, Jeff. Yeah, I'm going to try to make
it very very quick, but um there were a
couple points that I wanted to make. I
know you have another executive session
afterwards. Um just publicly, I want to
let you all know that I did send you an
email today to let you know that I would
be interested. I mean, as a community
member at large, that you're looking for
to be part of the search committee for
the next town administrator. Um, you
know, quickly I've been a resident for
20 years, been very involved in town
matters for the last 8 years. Um,
attending all the board of selectmen
meetings, board of ed meetings, not all
the board of ed, but you know, as a
member of the board of finance for the
past four years, I've been uniquely
involved with with that. So, I don't
want to go on and on. And then, um, my
unique experience too is also, you know,
vast experience in the human resource
world.
um being an assistant to various leaders
through the year. So I think I have a
unique ability to know what good
leadership looks like up close and what
qualities and qualifications work well.
Again, I don't want to take up a lot of
time with that, but I just wanted to put
it out there that I did send that to
you. Um as far as tonight, just a couple
quick things. Um, I agree with Jeff
Magcguire when he was talking about the
board clerk situation with the 1099
employee because if you all remember a
few years back, we had a board clerk
that was also a town employee and it got
the town in a little bit of hot water
and an additional payout from the
taxpayer money of adding those hours
onto whatever hours they were allowed to
get. So, I love the idea of the board
clerk being a 1099 employee. Um, again,
the if if you're going to be talking
about building use functions, you know,
as you all know, I work for a town, too.
Um, and in a school system where we do a
lot of facility use, just be very, very
careful about having either liability
waiverss or make sure the person that's
going to be renting the place has
insurance. I don't know what the town I
don't pretend to know everything. I see
Tess nodding. Great. None of the things
are in the packet. So, if I hear this
and I take the time to be involved, I
just want to bring that up quickly. And
then um the other thing that I wanted to
say is as you all know in the past
there's been like a lot of human
resource or union issues that I've
either quietly said to the board of
selectmen or you know sent emails about
or been involved in. And so when it
comes to whatever you're going to decide
tonight about the senior center director
and having an assistant I have no
problem with two employees. you know, I
mean, the town is growing, things are
going well. Um, I just kind of agree
with what Carol was saying that, you
know, Tess is back in her role as the
director. You know, getting whatever
salary is agreed upon. I don't pretend
to know everything. And then whatever
you're going to decide,
hopefully now there's two employees to
do all of the things that one person did
at the very beginning, such as
transportation and whatever you decide
there. Um, again,
you know, I hope you make a decision
that's, you know, benefits the town as
it continues to grow that center. Thank
you,
>> Kimberly Persona.
>> Yes. Hi, Jeff. Thank you. Um, my battery
is running a little bit low, so I'm
going to talk quick. I would like to say
that our community center or whatever
we're calling it was a big deal to our
town. Could we possibly have an item on
the agenda next month for something
positive that the community center is
doing? Um, I think Haley tests have done
a great job and I I would just like to
see the focus of this moved on to
something a lot more positive than what
we're currently doing. Thank you.
>> Leanne Hutchinson.
Hi, I have a comment about the town
administrator job description.
I'm not at all sure about this. I just
read it the other day, a couple of days
ago for my own information, so I haven't
had time to look into it. It seems to me
um within the last couple of years or
so, that I'm not sure if it was part of
a charter review or some other um
process that came up. It seems to me
that the town voted, I'm not sure if it
was at the polls or at a town meeting,
that we would not require the town
administrator to have a bachelor's
degree. Again, I'm not sure about this,
but my question is, um, just, you know,
for immediate future reference for you,
does that sound familiar to anybody
else?
>> Um, I haven't had time to go and look to
the town clerk's office. It's not
something that I I didn't read the
charter since I read the job
description. Um, and you know, I don't
know if it's something that that is
correct. Did someone say that that is
correct?
>> Carol did say that was correct.
>> Okay. I'm just wondering, it might sound
a little counterintuitive because it is
a really big job, but many of these job
descriptions, not necessarily for this,
but you know, it's common to say
something like experience and education,
a combination in lie of a degree of some
sort. So, I just wanted to put that out
to you um as as you go forward with the
you know the job description the way it
is and then um if it's anything that
should be modified to reflect that I
just wanted to bring it up. Thank you.
>> Okay. Thank you. Um Marcy Miner.
>> Hi. Um,
yeah. I don't really know what to say
cuz it seems like there's always
uh human resource issues and
um I guess you guys are doing the best
you can. I just want to make sure you
you know I've I've gone to the uh
community center quite a few times
recently and I noticed that it's pretty
it's bustling quite a bit. So, there's a
lot going on and uh I hope that you guys
can come to some uh agreements that
everybody's happy with. All right.
Thanks.
>> Uh did I miss anyone? Uh test grass.
Actually, I did miss you. I'm sorry.
You're at the top.
>> I'm all set. Thank you.
>> All right. Um did I miss anyone else?
Okay. Um everyone else, thank you. Um,
I'll make a motion that we move into
executive session to uh discuss uh
employee issues
>> and uh that we invite Tess Grouse and
attorney Dennis O'Brien into the
meeting. Oh, and uh assistant
um the town administrator Jim Balano.
>> Anybody want to second that?
>> Seconded.
>> Seconded by Jeff Murray. Um Ann, how do
you vote?
Ann votes yes. Caroli,
>> hi.
>> Jeff Murray,
>> Scott Person,
>> yes. And Jeff Mcgar 59.
>> I
>> thank you very much. Jim, if you could
um either um remove everyone from the
meeting or put them in the waiting room.
Uh
uh is anyone not Dennis? You're 2345,
right?
>> I am Dennis.
>> So I'm removing.
>> Yeah, that's me.
>> Was Zoom login is not a selectman,
right?
>> No, that's me.
>> You're Zoom login?
>> I am.
>> Okay, so I'm getting rid of
>> Katherine Hutchinson.
K. Hutchinson, Liz Loachch, and Leanne
Hutchinson in the community voice
channel.
>> All right, have to do this one at a
time.
Pardon the
>> Oh, there's in there now. They're just
taking the people out.
>> One, two, three. You're four. There's
Dennis.
>> So, we have Liz Lo catch and the
community voice channel.
So he said that no they had to release
the seed money and they released
what other towns are doing or something
like that.
>> Two three four
>> I asked I tried
>> I'm gonna I'm gonna stop recording as
well. We good?
>> Sure.